## IncomeTaxes

**Year Ended**

|  | Sep 30, 2017 | Sep 24, 2016 | Sep 26, 2015 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **  Income Taxes** | Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes for2017,2016and2015, consisted of the following 
(in millions):

                                  2017                  2016                  
2015              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────
  Federal:                                                                      
  Current                         $          7,842      $          7,652      $ 
11,730  
  Deferred                                   5,980                 5,043        
3,408  
  Total (1)                                 13,822                12,695        
15,138  
  State:                                                                        
  Current                         259                   990                     
1,265  
  Deferred                        2                     (138                  
(220              
  Total                           261                   852                     
1,045  
  Foreign:                                                                      
  Current                                    1,671                 2,105        
4,744  
  Deferred                        (16                   33                      
(1,806  
  Total                                      1,655                 2,138        
2,938  
  Provision for income taxes      $         15,738      $         15,685      $ 
19,121  

  (1)      Includes taxes of $7.9 billion, $6.7 billion and $7.3 billion 
provided on foreign pre-tax earnings in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  

The foreign provision for income taxes is based on foreign pre-tax earnings 
of$44.7 billion,$41.1 billionand$47.6 billionin2017,2016and2015, respectively. 
The Company’s consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax 
liability on undistributed earnings that the Company does not intend to be 
indefinitely reinvested outside the U. S. Substantially all of the Company’s 
undistributed international earnings intended to be indefinitely reinvested in 
operations outside the U. S. were generated by subsidiaries organized in 
Ireland, which has a statutory tax rate of12.5%. As ofSeptember 30, 2017, U. S. 
income taxes have not been provided on a cumulative total of$128.7 billionof 
such earnings. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to 
these temporary differences is estimated to be$42.2 billion.

As ofSeptember 30, 2017andSeptember 24, 2016,$252.3 billionand$216.0 billion, 
respectively, of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 
were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U. S. 
dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally 
subject to U. S. income taxation on repatriation to the U. S.

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed by 
applying the statutory federal income tax rate (35%in2017,2016and2015) to income
before provision for income taxes for2017,2016and2015, is as follows (dollars in
millions):

                                                              2017              
2016                  2015              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────────────────────────────────
  Computed expected tax                                          $      22,431  
$      21,480         $      25,380  
  State taxes, net of federal effect                           185              
553                   680              
  Indefinitely invested earnings of foreign subsidiaries                (6,135  
(5,582                (6,470  
  Domestic production activities deduction                    (209              
(382                  (426              
  Research and development credit, net                        (678              
(371                  (171              
  Other                                                        144              
(13                   128              
  Provision for income taxes                                     $      15,738  
$      15,685         $      19,121  
  Effective tax rate                                          24.6              
25.6                  26.4              

The Company’s income taxes payable have been reduced by the tax benefits from 
employee stock plan awards. For RSUs, the Company receives an income tax benefit
upon the award’s vesting equal to the tax effect of the underlying stock’s fair 
market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from equity awards of$620 
million,$379 millionand$748 millionin2017,2016and2015, respectively, which were 
reflected as increases to common stock.

As ofSeptember 30, 2017andSeptember 24, 2016, the significant components of the 
Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were (in millions):

                                                                   2017         
2016               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
──────────────────────────────
  Deferred tax assets:                                                          
  Accrued liabilities and other reserves                           $           
4,019      $           4,135  
  Basis of capital assets                                                      
1,230                  2,107  
  Deferred revenue                                                             
1,521                  1,717  
  Deferred cost sharing                                            667          
667                
  Share-based compensation                                         703          
601                
  Other                                                            834          
788                
  Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance of $0                  
8,974                 10,015  
  Deferred tax liabilities:                                                     
  Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries                                 
36,355                 31,436  
  Other                                                            207          
485                
  Total deferred tax liabilities                                              
36,562                 31,921  
  Net deferred tax liabilities                                     $         
(27,588      $         (21,906  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects of tax losses, credits 
and the future income tax effects of temporary differences between the 
consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and 
liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax 
rates that apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary 
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

Uncertain Tax Positions

Tax positions are evaluated in a two-step process. The Company first determines 
whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon 
examination. If a tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition 
threshold it is then measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in
the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of 
benefit that is greater than50%likely of being realized upon ultimate 
settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized
tax benefits that are not expected to result in payment or receipt of cash 
within one year as non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As ofSeptember 30, 2017, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits 
was$8.4 billion, of which$2.5 billion, if recognized, would affect the Company’s
effective tax rate. As ofSeptember 24, 2016, the total amount of gross 
unrecognized tax benefits was$7.7 billion, of which$2.8 billion, if recognized, 
would have affected the Company’s effective tax rate.

The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which 
excludes interest and penalties, for2017,2016and2015, is as follows (in 
millions):

                                                                        2017    
2016                  2015             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Beginning balances                                                    $       
7,724      $          6,900      $         4,033  
  Increases related to tax positions taken during a prior year          333     
1,121                2,056  
  Decreases related to tax positions taken during a prior year          (952    
(257                  (345             
  Increases related to tax positions taken during the current year              
1,880                 1,578                1,278  
  Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities              (539    
(1,618      (109             
  Decreases related to expiration of statute of limitations             (39     
—                     (13              
  Ending balances                                                       $       
8,407      $          7,724      $         6,900  

The Company includes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits
within the provision for income taxes. As ofSeptember 30, 2017andSeptember 24, 
2016, the total amount of gross interest and penalties accrued was$1.2 
billionand$1.0 billion, respectively, which is classified as non-current 
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In connection with tax matters, 
the Company recognized interest and penalty expense in2017,2016and2015of$165 
million,$295 millionand$709 million, respectively.

The Company is subject to taxation and files income tax returns in the U. S. 
federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions. The U. S. 
Internal Revenue Service (the “ IRS”) concluded its review of the years 2010 
through 2012 during the third quarter of 2017. All years prior to 2013 are 
closed, and the IRS is currently examining the years 2013 through 2015. The 
Company is also subject to audits by state, local and foreign tax authorities. 
In major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent to 2003 
generally remain open and could be subject to examination by the taxing 
authorities.

The Company believes that an adequate provision has been made for any 
adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax 
audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the 
Company’s tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with its 
expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income 
taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although timing of the resolution 
and/or closure of audits is not certain, the Company does not believe it is 
reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits would materially 
change in the next 12 months.

On August 30, 2016, the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland 
granted state aid to the Company by providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 
concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches oftwosubsidiaries
of the Company (the “ State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision orders 
Ireland to calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the 
period June 2003 through December 2014. Irish legislative changes, effective as 
of January 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinions from that date 
forward. The Company believes the State Aid Decision to be without merit and 
appealed to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 
Ireland has also appealed the State Aid Decision. Although Ireland is still 
computing the recovery amount, the Company expects the amount to be in line with
the European Commission’s announced recovery amount of€13 billion, plus interest
of€1 billion. Once the recovery amount is finalized by Ireland, the Company 
anticipates funding it, including interest, out of foreign cash. These amounts 
are expected to be placed into escrow in 2018, where they will remain pending 
conclusion of all appeals. The Company believes that any incremental Irish 
corporate income taxes potentially due related to the State Aid Decision would 
be creditable against U. S. taxes.
 |  |  |