## NotesToFinancialStatementsIncomeTaxDisclosureTextBlock

**Year Ended**

|  | Sep 28, 2013 |
| --- | --- |
| **      Income Taxes** | Note 5 - Income
Taxes

The provision
for income taxes for 2013, 2012 and 2011, consisted of the
following (in millions):

                            2013                  2012                  2011    
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
──────────
  Federal:                                                                      
  Current                   $          9,334      $          7,240      $       
3,884  
  Deferred                             1,878                 5,018              
2,998  
                                      11,212                12,258              
6,882  
  State:                                                                        
  Current                              1,084                 1,182              
762  
  Deferred                              (311                  (123              
37  
                                         773                 1,059              
799  
  Foreign:                                                                      
  Current                              1,559                 1,203              
769  
  Deferred                              (426                  (490              
(167  
                                       1,133                   713              
602  
  Provision for income      $         13,118      $         14,030      $       
8,283  

The foreign
provision for income taxes is based on foreign pre-tax earnings of
$30.5 billion, $36.8 billion and $24.0 billion in 2013, 2012 and
2011, respectively. The Company’s consolidated financial
statements provide for any related tax liability on undistributed
earnings that the Company does not intend to be indefinitely
reinvested outside the U. S. Substantially all of the
Company’s undistributed international earnings intended to be
indefinitely reinvested in operations outside the U. S. were
generated by subsidiaries organized in Ireland, which has a
statutory tax rate of 12.5%. As of September 28, 2013, U. S.
income taxes have not been provided on a cumulative total of $54.4
billion of such earnings. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax
liability related to these temporary differences is estimated to be
approximately $18.4 billion.

As of
September 28, 2013 and September 29, 2012, $111.3 billion
and $82.6 billion, respectively, of the Company’s cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities were held by foreign
subsidiaries and are generally based in U. S. dollar-denominated

A
reconciliation of the provision for income taxes, with the amount
computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate (35% in
2013, 2012 and 2011) to income before provision for income taxes
for 2013, 2012 and 2011, is as follows (in millions):

                                        2013                  2012              
2011              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
───────────────────────
  Computed expected                     $         17,554      $         19,517  
$         11,973  
  State taxes, net of federal                        508                   677  
552  
  Indefinitely invested                           (4,614                (5,895  
(3,898  
  Research and development                          (287                  (103  
(167  
  Domestic production                               (308                  (328  
(168  
  Other                                              265                   162  
(9  
  Provision for income                  $         13,118      $         14,030  
$          8,283  
  Effective tax                                    26.2%                 25.2%  
24.2%  

The
Company’s income taxes payable have been reduced by the tax
benefits from employee stock plan awards. For stock options, the
Company receives an income tax benefit calculated as the tax effect
of the difference between the fair market value of the stock issued
at the time of the exercise and the exercise price.  For RSUs,
the Company receives an income tax benefit upon the award’s
vesting equal to the tax effect of the underlying stock’s
fair market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from
equity awards of $643 million, $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion in
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which were reflected as
increases to common stock.

As of
September 28, 2013 and September 29, 2012, the
significant components of the Company’s deferred tax assets
and liabilities were (in millions):

                                   2013                   2012               
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Deferred tax                                                               
  Accrued liabilities and          $           1,892      $           1,346  
  Deferred revenue                             1,475                  1,145  
  Basis of capital assets and                  1,020                    451  
  Share-based                                    458                    411  
  Other                                        1,029                    947  
  Total deferred tax                           5,874                  4,300  
  Less valuation                                   0                      0  
  Deferred tax assets, net of                  5,874                  4,300  
  Deferred tax                                                               
  Unremitted earnings of                      18,044                 14,712  
  Other                                          112                    456  
  Total deferred tax                          18,156                 15,168  
  Net deferred tax                 $         (12,282      $         (10,868  

Deferred tax
assets and liabilities reflect the effects of tax losses, credits,
and the future income tax effects of temporary differences between
the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are
measured using enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in
the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled.

Uncertain Tax
Positions

Tax positions
are evaluated in a two-step process. The Company first determines
whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be
sustained upon examination. If a tax position meets the
more-likely-than-not recognition threshold it is then measured to
determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial
statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of
benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon
ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and
penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not expected to
result in payment or receipt of cash within one year as non-current
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of
September 28, 2013, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax
benefits was $2.7 billion, of which $1.4 billion, if recognized,
would affect the Company’s effective tax rate. As of
September 29, 2012, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax
benefits was $2.1 billion, of which $889 million, if recognized,
would affect the Company’s effective tax rate.

The aggregate
changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which
excludes interest and penalties, for 2013, 2012 and 2011, is as
follows (in millions):

                                               2013                 2012        
2011             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
───────────────────────────
  Beginning                                    $         2,062      $         
1,375      $           943  
  Increases related to tax                                 745                  
340                   49  
  Decreases related to tax                                (118                 
(107                  (39  
  Increases related to tax                                 626                  
467                  425  
  Decreases related to                                    (592                  
(3                    0  
  Decreases related to                                      (9                  
(10                   (3  
  Ending Balance                               $         2,714      $         
2,062      $         1,375  

The Company
includes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
benefits within the provision for income taxes. As of
September 28, 2013 and September 29, 2012, the total
amount of gross interest and penalties accrued was $590 million and
$401 million, respectively, which is classified as non-current
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In connection with
tax matters, the Company recognized interest and penalty expense in
2013, 2012 and 2011 of $189 million, $140 million and $14 million,
respectively.

The Company is
subject to taxation and files income tax returns in the U. S.
federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions.
For U. S. federal income tax purposes, all years prior to 2004 are
closed. The Internal Revenue Service (the “ IRS”) has
completed its field audit of the Company’s federal income tax
returns for the years 2004 through 2006 and proposed certain
adjustments. The Company has contested certain of these adjustments
through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS is currently examining the
years 2007 through 2012. In addition, the Company is also subject
to audits by state, local and foreign tax authorities.  In
major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent
to 1989 and 2002, respectively, generally remain open and could be
subject to examination by the taxing authorities.

Management
believes that an adequate provision has been made for any
adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the
outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any
issues addressed in the Company’s tax audits are resolved in
a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, the
Company could be required to adjust its provision for income tax in
the period such resolution occurs. Although timing of the
resolution and/or closure of audits is not certain, the Company
believes it is reasonably possible that tax audit resolutions could
reduce its unrecognized tax benefits by between $125 million and
$225 million in the next 12 months.
 |