## NotesToFinancialStatementsIncomeTaxDisclosureTextBlock

**Year Ended**

|  | Sep 26, 2015 |
| --- | --- |
| **      Income Taxes** | Note 5 - Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes for 2015, 2014 and
2013, consisted of the following (in millions):

                                  2015                  2014                  
2013              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────
  Federal:                                                                      
  Current                         $         11,730      $          8,624      $ 
9,334  
  Deferred                                   3,408                 3,183        
1,878  
                                            15,138                11,807        
11,212  
  State:                                                                        
  Current                                    1,265                   855        
1,084  
  Deferred                                    (220                  (178        
(311  
                                             1,045                   677        
773  
  Foreign:                                                                      
  Current                                    4,744                 2,147        
1,559  
  Deferred                                  (1,806                  (658        
(426  
                                             2,938                 1,489        
1,133  
  Provision for income taxes      $         19,121      $         13,973      $ 
13,118  

The foreign provision for income taxes is based on
foreign pre-tax earnings of $47.6 billion, $33.6 billion and $30.5
billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Company’s
consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax
liability on undistributed earnings that the Company does not
intend to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U. S. Substantially
all of the Company’s undistributed international earnings
intended to be indefinitely reinvested in operations outside the
U. S. were generated by subsidiaries organized in Ireland, which has
a statutory tax rate of 12.5%. As of September 26, 2015, U. S.
income taxes have not been provided on a cumulative total of $91.5
billion of such earnings. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax
liability related to these temporary differences is estimated to be
$30.0 billion.

As of September 26, 2015 and
September 27, 2014, $186.9 billion and $137.1 billion,
respectively, of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are
generally based in U. S. dollar-denominatedholdings. Amounts
held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U. S. income
taxation on repatriation to the U. S.

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes,
with the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income
tax rate (35% in 2015, 2014 and 2013) to income before provision
for income taxes for 2015, 2014 and 2013, is as follows (dollars in
millions):

                                                              2015              
2014                  2013              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────────────────────────────────
  Computed expected tax                                       $         25,380  
$         18,719      $         17,554  
  State taxes, net of federal effect                                       680  
469                   508  
  Indefinitely invested earnings of foreign subsidiaries                (6,470  
(4,744                (4,614  
  Domestic production activities deduction                                (426  
(495                  (308  
  Research and development credit, net                                    (171  
(88                  (287  
  Other                                                                    128  
112                   265  
  Provision for income taxes                                  $         19,121  
$         13,973      $         13,118  
  Effective tax rate                                                     26.4%  
26.1%                 26.2%  

The Company’s income taxes payable have been
reduced by the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For
stock options, the Company receives an income tax benefit
calculated as the tax effect of the difference between the fair
market value of the stock issued at the time of the exercise and
the exercise price.  For RSUs, the Company receives an income
tax benefit upon the award’s vesting equal to the tax effect
of the underlying stock’s fair market value. The Company had
net excess tax benefits from equity awards of $748 million, $706
million and $643 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively,
which were reflected as increases to common stock.

As of September 26, 2015 and
September 27, 2014, the significant components of the
Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were (in
millions):

                                                                   2015         
2014               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
──────────────────────────────
  Deferred tax assets:                                                          
  Accrued liabilities and other reserves                           $           
4,205      $           3,326  
  Basis of capital assets and investments                                      
2,238                    898  
  Deferred revenue                                                             
1,941                  1,787  
  Deferred cost sharing                                                         
667                      0  
  Share-based compensation                                                      
575                    454  
  Unrealized losses                                                             
564                    130  
  Other                                                                         
721                    227  
  Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance of $0                 
10,911                  6,822  
  Deferred tax liabilities:                                                     
  Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries                                 
26,868                 21,544  
  Other                                                                         
303                    398  
  Total deferred tax liabilities                                              
27,171                 21,942  
  Net deferred tax liabilities                                     $         
(16,260      $         (15,120  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the
effects of tax losses, credits and the future income tax effects of
temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

Uncertain Tax Positions

Tax positions are evaluated in a two-step process.
The Company first determines whether it is more likely than not
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination. If a tax
position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold it is
then measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in
the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the
largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being
realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross
interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not
expected to result in payment or receipt of cash within one year as
non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of September 26, 2015, the total amount of
gross unrecognized tax benefits was $6.9 billion, of which $2.5
billion, if recognized, would affect the Company’s effective
tax rate. As of September 27, 2014, the total amount of gross
unrecognized tax benefits was $4.0 billion, of which $1.4 billion,
if recognized, would affect the Company’s effective tax
rate.

The aggregate changes in the balance of gross
unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties,
for 2015, 2014 and 2013, is as follows (in millions):

                                                                    2015        
2014                 2013             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Beginning Balance                                                 $         
4,033      $         2,714      $         2,062  
  Increases related to tax positions taken during a prior year                
2,056                1,295                  745  
  Decreases related to tax positions taken during a prior year                 
(345                 (280                 (118  
  Increases related to tax positions taken during the current                 
1,278                  882                  626  
  Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities                     
(109                 (574                 (592  
  Decreases related to expiration of statute of limitations                     
(13                   (4                   (9  
  Ending Balance                                                    $         
6,900      $         4,033      $         2,714  

The Company includes interest and penalties related
to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes.
As of September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014, the
total amount of gross interest and penalties accrued was $1.3
billion and $630 million, respectively, which is classified as
non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In
connection with tax matters, the Company recognized interest and
penalty expense in 2015, 2014 and 2013 of $709 million, $40 million
and $189 million, respectively.

The Company is subject to taxation and files income
tax returns in the U. S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and
foreign jurisdictions. The U. S. Internal Revenue Service (the
“ IRS”) is currently examining the years 2010 through
2012, and all years prior to 2010 are closed. In addition, the
Company is subject to audits by state, local and foreign tax
authorities.  In major states and major foreign jurisdictions,
the years subsequent to 2003 generally remain open and could be
subject to examination by the taxing authorities.

Management believes that an adequate provision has
been made for any adjustments that may result from tax
examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be
predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the
Company’s tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent
with management’s expectations, the Company could be required
to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such
resolution occurs. Although timing of the resolution and/or closure
of audits is not certain, the Company does not believe it is
reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits would
materially change in the next 12 months.

On June 11, 2014, the European Commission
issued an opening decision initiating a formal investigation
against Ireland for alleged state aid to the Company. The opening
decision concerns the allocation of profits for taxation purposes
of the Irish branches of two subsidiaries of the Company. The
Company believes the European Commission’s assertions are
without merit. If the European Commission were to conclude against
Ireland, the European Commission could require Ireland to recover
from the Company past taxes covering a period of up to 10 years
reflective of the disallowed state aid. While such amount could be
material, as of September 26, 2015 the Company is unable to
estimate the impact.
 |