## NotesToFinancialStatementsIncomeTaxDisclosureTextBlock

**Year Ended**

|  | Sep 27, 2014 |
| --- | --- |
| **      Income Taxes** | Note 5 - Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes for 2014, 2013 and
2012, consisted of the following (in millions):

                                  2014                  2013                  
2012              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────
  Federal:                                                                      
  Current                         $          8,624      $          9,334      $ 
7,240  
  Deferred                                   3,183                 1,878        
5,018  
                                            11,807                11,212        
12,258  
  State:                                                                        
  Current                                      855                 1,084        
1,182  
  Deferred                                    (178                  (311        
(123  
                                               677                   773        
1,059  
  Foreign:                                                                      
  Current                                    2,147                 1,559        
1,203  
  Deferred                                    (658                  (426        
(490  
                                             1,489                 1,133        
713  
  Provision for income taxes      $         13,973      $         13,118      $ 
14,030  

The foreign provision for income taxes is based on
foreign pre-tax earnings of $33.6 billion, $30.5 billion and
$36.8 billion in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The
Company’s consolidated financial statements provide for any
related tax liability on undistributed earnings that the Company
does not intend to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U. S.
Substantially all of the Company’s undistributed
international earnings intended to be indefinitely reinvested in
operations outside the U. S. were generated by subsidiaries
organized in Ireland, which has a statutory tax rate of 12.5%. As
of September 27, 2014, U. S. income taxes have not been
provided on a cumulative total of $69.7 billion of such earnings.
The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these
temporary differences is estimated to be approximately $23.3
billion.

As of September 27, 2014 and
September 28, 2013, $137.1 billion and $111.3 billion,
respectively, of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities were held by foreign subsidiaries and are
generally based in U. S. dollar-denominatedholdings. Amounts
held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U. S. income
taxation on repatriation to the U. S.

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes,
with the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income
tax rate (35% in 2014, 2013 and 2012) to income before provision
for income taxes for 2014, 2013 and 2012, is as follows (dollars in
millions):

                                                              2014              
2013                  2012              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────────────────────────────────
  Computed expected tax                                       $         18,719  
$         17,554      $         19,517  
  State taxes, net of federal effect                                       469  
508                   677  
  Indefinitely invested earnings of foreign subsidiaries                (4,744  
(4,614                (5,895  
  Research and development credit, net                                     (88  
(287                  (103  
  Domestic production activities deduction                                (495  
(308                  (328  
  Other                                                                    112  
265                   162  
  Provision for income taxes                                  $         13,973  
$         13,118      $         14,030  
  Effective tax rate                                                     26.1%  
26.2%                 25.2%  

The Company’s income taxes payable have been
reduced by the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For
stock options, the Company receives an income tax benefit
calculated as the tax effect of the difference between the fair
market value of the stock issued at the time of the exercise and
the exercise price.  For RSUs, the Company receives an income
tax benefit upon the award’s vesting equal to the tax effect
of the underlying stock’s fair market value. The Company had
net excess tax benefits from equity awards of $706 million, $643
million and $1.4 billion in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively,
which were reflected as increases to common stock.

As of September 27, 2014 and
September 28, 2013, the significant components of the
Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were (in
millions):

                                                       2014                   
2013               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
──────────────────
  Deferred tax assets:                                                          
  Accrued liabilities and other reserves               $           2,761      $ 
1,892  
  Deferred revenue                                                 1,787        
1,475  
  Basis of capital assets and investments                            898        
1,020  
  Share-based compensation                                           454        
458  
  Other                                                              644        
1,029  
  Total deferred tax assets                                        6,544        
5,874  
  Less valuation allowance                                             0        
0  
  Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance                  6,544        
5,874  
  Deferred tax liabilities:                                                     
  Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries                     21,544        
18,044  
  Other                                                              120        
112  
  Total deferred tax liabilities                                  21,664        
18,156  
  Net deferred tax liabilities                         $         (15,120      $ 
(12,282  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the
effects of tax losses, credits and the future income tax effects of
temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

Uncertain Tax Positions

Tax positions are evaluated in a two-step process.
The Company first determines whether it is more likely than not
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination. If a tax
position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold it is
then measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in
the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the
largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being
realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross
interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not
expected to result in payment or receipt of cash within one year as
non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of September 27, 2014, the total amount of
gross unrecognized tax benefits was $4.0 billion, of which
$1.4 billion, if recognized, would affect the Company’s
effective tax rate. As of September 28, 2013, the total amount
of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $2.7 billion, of which $1.4
billion, if recognized, would affect the Company’s effective
tax rate.

The aggregate changes in the balance of gross
unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties,
for 2014, 2013 and 2012, is as follows (in millions):

                                                                    2014        
2013                 2012             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Beginning Balance                                                 $         
2,714      $         2,062      $         1,375  
  Increases related to tax positions taken during a prior year                
1,295                  745                  340  
  Decreases related to tax positions taken during a prior year                 
(280                 (118                 (107  
  Increases related to tax positions taken during the current                   
882                  626                  467  
  Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities                     
(574                 (592                   (3  
  Decreases related to expiration of statute of limitations                     
(4                   (9                  (10  
  Ending Balance                                                    $         
4,033      $         2,714      $         2,062  

The Company includes interest and penalties related
to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes.
As of September 27, 2014 and September 28, 2013, the
total amount of gross interest and penalties accrued was $630
million and $590 million, respectively, which is classified as
non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In
connection with tax matters, the Company recognized interest and
penalty expense in 2014, 2013 and 2012 of $40 million, $189 million
and $140 million, respectively.

The Company is subject to taxation and files income
tax returns in the U. S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and
foreign jurisdictions. During the fiscal year ended
September 27, 2014, the U. S. Internal Revenue Service
(“ IRS”) concluded its review of the years 2004 through
2009, which resulted in the Company reducing its gross unrecognized
tax benefits by $570 million and recognizing a tax benefit of $166
million. The IRS is currently examining the years 2010 through
2012. In addition, the Company is also subject to audits by state,
local and foreign tax authorities.  In major states and major
foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent to 1996 and 2002,
respectively, generally remain open and could be subject to
examination by the taxing authorities.

Management believes that an adequate provision has
been made for any adjustments that may result from tax
examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be
predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the
Company’s tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent
with management’s expectations, the Company could be required
to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such
resolution occurs. Although timing of the resolution and/or closure
of audits is not certain, the Company does not believe it is
reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits would
materially change in the next 12 months.
 |