## IncomeTaxes

**Year Ended**

|  | Sep 24, 2016 | Sep 26, 2015 | Sep 27, 2014 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **  Income Taxes** | Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes for2016,2015and2014, consisted of the following 
(in millions):

                                  2016                  2015                  
2014              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────
  Federal:                                                                      
  Current                         $          7,652      $         11,730      $ 
8,624  
  Deferred                                   5,043                 3,408        
3,183  
                                            12,695                15,138        
11,807  
  State:                                                                        
  Current                         990                              1,265      
855               
  Deferred                        (138                  (220                  
(178              
                                  852                              1,045      
677               
  Foreign:                                                                      
  Current                                    2,105                 4,744        
2,147  
  Deferred                        33                              (1,806      
(658              
                                             2,138                 2,938        
1,489  
  Provision for income taxes      $         15,685      $         19,121      $ 
13,973  

The foreign provision for income taxes is based on foreign pre-tax earnings 
of$41.1 billion,$47.6 billionand$33.6 billionin 2016, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively. The Company’s consolidated financial statements provide for any 
related tax liability on undistributed earnings that the Company does not intend
to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U. S. Substantially all of the 
Company’s undistributed international earnings intended to be indefinitely 
reinvested in operations outside the U. S. were generated by subsidiaries 
organized in Ireland, which has a statutory tax rate of12.5%. As ofSeptember 24,
2016, U. S. income taxes have not been provided on a cumulative total of$109.8 
billionof such earnings. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability 
related to these temporary differences is estimated to be$35.9 billion.

As ofSeptember 24, 2016andSeptember 26, 2015,$216.0 billionand$186.9 billion, 
respectively, of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 
were held by foreign subsidiaries and are generally based in U. S. 
dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally 
subject to U. S. income taxation on repatriation to the U. S.

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed by 
applying the statutory federal income tax rate (35%in2016,2015and2014) to income
before provision for income taxes for2016,2015and2014, is as follows (dollars in
millions):

                                                              2016              
2015                  2014              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────────────────────────────────
  Computed expected tax                                          $      21,480  
$      25,380         $      18,719  
  State taxes, net of federal effect                           553              
680                   469              
  Indefinitely invested earnings of foreign subsidiaries                (5,582  
(6,470                (4,744  
  Domestic production activities deduction                    (382              
(426                  (495              
  Research and development credit, net                        (371              
(171                   (88              
  Other                                                        (13              
128                   112              
  Provision for income taxes                                     $      15,685  
$      19,121         $      13,973  
  Effective tax rate                                          25.6              
26.4                  26.1              

The Company’s income taxes payable have been reduced by the tax benefits from 
employee stock plan awards. For RSUs, the Company receives an income tax benefit
upon the award’s vesting equal to the tax effect of the underlying stock’s fair 
market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from equity awards of$379 
million,$748 millionand$706 millionin2016,2015and2014, respectively, which were 
reflected as increases to common stock.

As ofSeptember 24, 2016andSeptember 26, 2015, the significant components of the 
Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were (in millions):

                                                                   2016         
2015               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
──────────────────────────────
  Deferred tax assets:                                                          
  Accrued liabilities and other reserves                           $           
4,135         $        4,205  
  Basis of capital assets                                                      
2,107                  2,238  
  Deferred revenue                                                             
1,717                  1,941  
  Deferred cost sharing                                            667          
667               
  Share-based compensation                                         601          
575               
  Unrealized losses                                                —            
564               
  Other                                                            788          
721               
  Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance of $0                 
10,015                 10,911  
  Deferred tax liabilities:                                                     
  Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries                                 
31,436                 26,868  
  Other                                                            485          
303               
  Total deferred tax liabilities                                              
31,921                 27,171  
  Net deferred tax liabilities                                     $         
(21,906         $      (16,260  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects of tax losses, credits 
and the future income tax effects of temporary differences between the 
consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and 
liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax 
rates that apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary 
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

Uncertain Tax Positions

Tax positions are evaluated in a two-step process. The Company first determines 
whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon 
examination. If a tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition 
threshold it is then measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in
the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of 
benefit that is greater than50%likely of being realized upon ultimate 
settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized
tax benefits that are not expected to result in payment or receipt of cash 
within one year as non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As ofSeptember 24, 2016, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits 
was$7.7 billion, of which$2.8 billion, if recognized, would affect the Company’s
effective tax rate. As ofSeptember 26, 2015, the total amount of gross 
unrecognized tax benefits was$6.9 billion, of which$2.5 billion, if recognized, 
would affect the Company’s effective tax rate.

The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits, which 
excludes interest and penalties, for2016,2015and2014, is as follows (in 
millions):

                                                                        2016    
2015                 2014             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Beginning Balance                                                     $       
6,900      $         4,033      $         2,714  
  Increases related to tax positions taken during a prior year                  
1,121                2,056                1,295  
  Decreases related to tax positions taken during a prior year          (257    
(345                 (280             
  Increases related to tax positions taken during the current year              
1,578                1,278      882              
  Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities                      
(1,618      (109                 (574             
  Decreases related to expiration of statute of limitations             —       
(13                  (4               
  Ending Balance                                                        $       
7,724      $         6,900      $         4,033  

The Company includes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits
within the provision for income taxes. As ofSeptember 24, 2016andSeptember 26, 
2015, the total amount of gross interest and penalties accrued was$1.0 
billionand$1.3 billion, respectively, which is classified as non-current 
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In connection with tax matters, 
the Company recognized interest and penalty expense in2016,2015and2014of$295 
million,$709 millionand$40 million, respectively.

The Company is subject to taxation and files income tax returns in the U. S. 
federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions. During the 
fourth quarter of 2016, the Company reached a partial settlement with the U. S. 
Internal Revenue Service (the “ IRS”) on its examination of the years 2010 
through 2012. In connection with this settlement, the Company recognized a tax 
benefit in the fourth quarter of 2016 that was not significant to its 
consolidated financial statements. All years prior to 2013 are closed, except 
for the years 2010 through 2012 relating to R& D tax credits. In addition, the 
Company is subject to audits by state, local and foreign tax authorities. In 
major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent to 2003 
generally remain open and could be subject to examination by the taxing 
authorities.

The Company believes that an adequate provision has been made for any 
adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax 
audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in the 
Company’s tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with its 
expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income 
taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although timing of the resolution 
and/or closure of audits is not certain, the Company believes it is reasonably 
possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits could decrease (whether by 
payment, release or a combination of both) in the next 12 months by up to$850 
million.

On August 30, 2016, the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland 
granted state aid to the Company by providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 
concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches oftwosubsidiaries
of the Company (the "State Aid Decision"). The State Aid Decision orders Ireland
to calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June 
2003 through September 2014. Irish legislative changes, effective as of the 
beginning of 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinions from that date
forward. The Company believes the State Aid Decision to be without merit and 
intends to appeal to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European 
Union. Ireland has also announced its intention to appeal the State Aid 
Decision. While the European Commission announced a recovery amount of up to€13 
billion, plus interest, the actual amount of additional taxes subject to 
recovery is to be calculated by Ireland in accordance with the European 
Commission's guidance. Once the recovery amount is computed by Ireland, the 
Company anticipates funding it, including interest, out of foreign cash into 
escrow, pending conclusion of all appeals. The Company believes that any 
incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due would be creditable 
against U. S. taxes.
 |  |  |